## Strings

Single quotes (apostrophes) and double quotes can be used for strings in both Python and Javascript.

```
myString = "some string"
anotherString = 'this too'
```

## Mathematical Expressions

You will likely not be surprised to find out that Python uses the same math operators that you've come to know (an love?).

- Addition with +
- Subtraction with -
- Multiplication with \*
- Division with /
- Mod (remainder) with %

Also, comparison operators are the same, less than, greater than, and that family.

- Less than <
- Less than or equal <=
- Greater than >
- Greater than or equal >=
- Equals ==
- Not equals !=

## Scripting

Both Python and JavaScript (Node.js) can be written as "scripts", or in "scripting flow". This means simple code that reads "top to bottom" is written to solve technical challenges. You can write a JavaScript file for Node.js to read a file and print its contents like this.

```
const { readFileSync } = require('fs');
const content = readFileSync('./file.txt', 'utf-8');
console.log(content);
```

## Object-oriented, if you want

Object-oriented programming principle and approaches are supported in Python, including inheritance and encapsulation.

## Popular and free

JavaScript (both in the browser and with Node.js) is free to use. Python is also free to use. Each one has a set of passionate followers who keep the movement alive and thriving. This means there are many libraries (called modules or packages in Python) to choose for solving common - and not-so-common - coding challenges.

# Javascript-Python differences

1. Whitespace matters in Python. This is going to be a huge pain for you as you start writing it. In JavaScript, you could just not care what your code looked like.

- Python will scream at you for badly indented code because Python uses whitespace to indicate a code block. That means that there is nearly a complete lack of curly braces in Python. In JavaScript, if you want a code block for an if statement, for example, you would write

2. If you're not consistent with your indentation, then you get this nasty thing: `IndentationError: unexpected indent`

- Python force you to be a neat programmer

3.  Python uses the def keyword to "define" a function

4.  No semicolons. Instead, idiomatic Python puts one statement per line. If the line ends with a colon, then it starts a block, like an if block or a new function.

5.  JavaScript inherited the `&&`, `||`, and `!` operators from Java to make Java programmers feel like they were comfortable with the language when it was created. Python had no such baggage. The designer of the language wanted to read the code, so the logical operators in Python are `and`, `or`, and `not`.

```
  if ((condition1 and condition2) or not condition3):
    print('Condition met')
```

6. Package Manager for Python include `pipenv, poetry, or hatch`. JavaScript used `npm`

```
# To take input from the user
num = int(input("Enter a number: "))

# By definition, prime numbers are greater than 1
if num > 1:
  # check for factors
  for i in range(2,num):
    # check for remainder in division (mod), if none it's not prime
    if (num % i) == 0:
      print(num,"is not a prime number")
      # find it's corresponding factor using integer division
      print(i,"times",num//i,"is",num)
      break
  else:
    print(num,"is prime")

else:
  print(num,"is not a prime number")
```
